---
layout: page
published: false
title: fitSum
---
  This project will entail, firstly, the creation of a universal syntax for tracking workouts in plain text, but it will also incorporate an application for the purpose of analyzing data saved in that syntax.  This will be an unbiased and extensible personal fitness-tracking solution with the secondary goal of being adaptable for use in a social media context and particularly in a distributed, non-centralized fashion.
  
  This would be, in effect, a combination of the simplicity of [weightxreps](http://weightxreps.net) and the versatility of [thesquatrack](http://thesquatrack.com), but in essence, very different from either; being first a core set of tracking technologies and standards, and only extending beyond that as proof of concept.

## Why another fitness tracker?

  By and large, individuals and groups of individuals hold strong biases about the nature of fitness and the merits of their particular approaches to achieving what they consider to be a satisfactory or ideal level of fitness. While certainly in some cases that bias is sometimes warranted and even supported by the weight of evidence, and certainly some approaches are more sound than others by a wide margin, it is not the role or responsibility of a fitness tracker to enforce or even encourage particular behaviors and practices.
  
  However, it is absolutely essential that a tracker facilitate a range of practices wide enough to encompass an elite level as much as an amateur level without causing either to obstruct the other.  The way to accomplish this is through an intuitive means of input; i.e. a sensible text syntax.