_includes/siteWiki/contributionGuidelines.md, before:

> ##### Note:
>  *This is a **[WIP](#wip)** and subject to change and further development.*

 >*placeholder*

> ##### WIP:
>  *To consult or contribute those tasks yet uncompleted in this document, please refer to the comments visible below when <a onclick="goToGitHub('{{ site.github.repo }}', '{{ page.path }}')" title="edit on GitHub" class="link">editing</a>.  Please consult the [contribution guidelines]({{ page.root }}siteWiki/contributionGuidelines)*

<!-- #TODO: really need this page to explain [IMDONE](https://imdone.io/) implementation as well as wiki contribution (which will be distinct from general site contribution, as I want to direct people to edit the wiki itself, rather than its subtree manifestation on the site; and I believe that's doable through the prose and octicon JS) +wikiTransclusion +feature id:4 gh:6
#TODO: explain our [hexadecimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal) numbering system for [reference links](http://spec.commonmark.org/0.28/#reference-link) and [footnotes](https://stackoverflow.com/a/32119820/8304877) id:14
  #NOTE: our present method for [footnotes](https://stackoverflow.com/a/32119820/8304877) is a bit clunky and should ideally be replace with [Kramdown's method](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#footnotes), since our website presently uses Kramdown syntax, but as that method is not compatible with GitHub-flavored markdown (CommonMark, as it so happens), we are using a more compatible HTML-oriented method, pending any changes to GitHub or the event of no longer needing GitHub id:14
#IDEA: consider using [CriticMarkup](http://criticmarkup.com/), but probably only if we can figure out how to configure Jekyll to hide that markup when it builds.  It would be useful if [Prose](http://prose.io) or Atom (Atom does have [*some*](https://atom.io/themes/pen-paper-coffee-syntax) [support](https://github.com/shd101wyy/markdown-preview-enhanced/issues/591#issuecomment-326782396)) recognized CriticMarkup, as well, but we'll just have to make do and perhaps [roll our own solution](https://www.rapidexpedition.org/waypoint/rapidex/) in regard to that id:16
  #NOTE: we could suggest that CriticMarkup be used only in pull requests and never merged into the master branch id:16
#IDEA: [BibTex](http://www.bibtex.org/Using/) support?  We'll have to use the [jekyll plugin](https://github.com/inukshuk/jekyll-scholar) and figure out a good flow for push site builds to gh-pages (which we need to do anyway) id:17
-->

Commit message:

We now have our wiki transclusion functionality but also more yet to do.

_includes/siteWiki/contributionGuidelines.md, after:

> ##### Note:
>  *This is a **[WIP](#wip)** and subject to change and further development.*

 >*placeholder*

> ##### WIP:
>  *To consult or contribute those tasks yet uncompleted in this document, please refer to the comments visible below when <a onclick="goToGitHub('{{ site.github.repo }}', '{{ page.path }}')" title="edit on GitHub" class="link">editing</a>.  Please consult the [contribution guidelines]({{ page.root }}siteWiki/contributionGuidelines)*

<!-- #TODO: really need this page to explain [IMDONE](https://imdone.io/) implementation as well as wiki contribution (which will be distinct from general site contribution, as I want to direct people to edit the wiki itself, rather than its subtree manifestation on the site; and I believe that's doable through the prose and octicon JS) +wikiTransclusion +feature id:4 gh:6
#TODO: explain our [hexadecimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal) numbering system for [reference links](http://spec.commonmark.org/0.28/#reference-link) and [footnotes](https://stackoverflow.com/a/32119820/8304877) id:14
  #NOTE: our present method for [footnotes](https://stackoverflow.com/a/32119820/8304877) is a bit clunky and should ideally be replace with [Kramdown's method](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#footnotes), since our website presently uses Kramdown syntax, but as that method is not compatible with GitHub-flavored markdown (CommonMark, as it so happens), we are using a more compatible HTML-oriented method, pending any changes to GitHub or the event of no longer needing GitHub id:14
#IDEA: consider using [CriticMarkup](http://criticmarkup.com/), but probably only if we can figure out how to configure Jekyll to hide that markup when it builds.  It would be useful if [Prose](http://prose.io) or Atom (Atom does have [*some*](https://atom.io/themes/pen-paper-coffee-syntax) [support](https://github.com/shd101wyy/markdown-preview-enhanced/issues/591#issuecomment-326782396)) recognized CriticMarkup, as well, but we'll just have to make do and perhaps [roll our own solution](https://www.rapidexpedition.org/waypoint/rapidex/) in regard to that id:16
  #NOTE: we could suggest that CriticMarkup be used only in pull requests and never merged into the master branch id:16
#IDEA: [BibTex](http://www.bibtex.org/Using/) support?  We'll have to use the [jekyll plugin](https://github.com/inukshuk/jekyll-scholar) and figure out a good flow for push site builds to gh-pages (which we need to do anyway) id:17
#TODO: figure out a decent way to make the WIP nonsense part of a template so as to remove it altogether from the wiki article (relegating it to something triggered in the frontmatter) +wikiTransclusion id:27
-->
